---
layout: post
title:  "Devlog #1"
date:   2021-05-21 10:00:00 +0200
description: 'First development blog aimed to introduce myself to summarizing my work'
permalink: 'devlog_1'
author: kkp
---

# Why blog

Aimed to summarize my work over the course of a period of time, ideally written at the end of the week of work to summarize my
professional work and describe my eventual plans for programming work over the weekend if any is planned to motivate myself better.
Other devlogs will aim at seeing what I have planned last week and how much of that I have accomplished.

# Devlog #1

### Work
This week at work I mostly worked with elasticsearch. The project I am currently spending full-time work forces
is a legacy system that is getting a redesigned version (in the same monolithic app). I have joined way after
the rework of the app started and it seems that all the architectural blocks are in the place, so I am mostly working
with fixing bugs, developing the app further etc. The application stack is mostly centered around ElasticSearch, 
[docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started), [nomad](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/nomad), [terrafrom](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform), and communicating with frontend build in react native with typescript through REST API.

Elasticsearch implementation is vast, since its the hearth of the new version of the app that relies on big amounts of data
and users need to filter and find stuff quickly. I had some troubles with it, since I felt like the implementation
does not care about Composition Over Inheritance rule which means that one seemingly simple object, inherits from 4/5 other classes chained
in a way that sometimes overwrites some methods, sometimes does not, depending on the context of the search.
My summarized thoughts on Composition Over Inheritance is that, COI makes it easier to further develop the architecture it was used to build,
it makes an overall cleaner, easily readable code. But it is harder to implement and plan out, you need to know the details of the implementation before you start coding.
It is harder to write code in reusable, extendable and includable blocks, rather than just inheriting and overwriting. This means that not following this rule
makes it easier for a developer to implement a given functionality in "one go", just going with the flow. If he has a good idea
what has to be done, this can still turn out good, and I think in my case it did, I did eventually got a hold of the implementation.
I still think it would be better if the COI rule was in mind when implementing it, but I was not there for it I do not know
how hard it was, what was the situation during the initial implementation. Gave me a good example to reflect on Composition over Inheritance though

Other than that I was dealing with some weird attachments code, that was build around already deprecated Paperclip that I had to authorize through S3 storage and that
ended up with like 5 hotfixes after bugs on production. It was kinda expected though, cause the feature was almost impossible to test on two other environments.

### Off time

#### GameDev

I continued working on my RTS project in [Godot](https://godotengine.org/) writing units base movement.
Has one thing to fix there or rather improve there. When I select multiple units and point all of them to run to one point
they do so, but the ones that are the last, cant get to the actual target close enough cause of other units blocking the path. Other units stop cause i set a margin of error that 
causes them to stop when they get close enough to target or rather as close as possible. But I need to work on it more, so that i works
universally rather than to just some extent.
I also introduced base state machine and added one to the Unit Node but that in turn broke the movement, which is my priority to fix now.

#### Ruby stuff

Didn't do much work or learning in ruby this week outside work, but Im planning to trying out a roda-sequel stack
in some mini app. Ill try to come up with something soon.

#### Other

Did some learning on bash scripts from MIT free resources I want to watch one more video from them and solve the homework given there.
[MIT Free Lectures](https://www.youtube.com/c/MissingSemester) I highly recommend their lessons, they are available in both video and text form and they provide
good exercises after each lessons. Some of the stuff you might find very basic as I did, but it is still good to get a explanation on those stuff
from someone who really knows what they are talking about and they have experience in teaching other. I also did learn a few new things, tricks
or inner working. haven't gone through all of the lectures yet, not even close but I would very much like too.
Next time I will post some of my solutions to some exercises given there.

### Plans

Over the weekend I have to finish the second project I do overtime with, but I do not wanna talk about it as the project
makes me angry. I will try to find some time to fix the problem in Godot I mentioned and I want to watch one lecture from MIT
and do the exercises given. I think I will do Bash scripting lecture from 2019 cause I already saw the 2020 one.
